README.md, before:

# Remote Pull Runner

Remote Pull Runner is a micro CI/CD tool built with Python and Flask. It monitors GitHub repositories and remote servers, and runs commands on servers upon new commits.

## Features

- Enroll GitHub repositories (public/private) for change detection
- Enroll remote servers via SSH for connectivity checks
- Configure commands to run on servers when changes are detected
- Web UI for management, manual triggers, and log viewing
- Background scheduler for periodic checks
- Token-based authentication

## Requirements

- Python 3.10+ on Windows or 3.12+ on Linux
- Git

## Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone <repo-url> && cd remote-pull-runner
   ```
2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   # Windows:
   .\.venv\Scripts\activate
   # Linux:
   source .venv/bin/activate
   ```
3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

## Usage

### CLI Configuration

- Enroll a GitHub repository:
  ```bash
  python config_manager.py add-repo --repo user/repo [--token YOUR_GITHUB_TOKEN] [--branch main]
  ```
- List repositories:
  ```bash
  python config_manager.py list-repos
  ```
- Enroll a server:
  ```bash
  python config_manager.py add-server --host 10.0.0.1 --user ubuntu --key ~/.ssh/id_rsa
  ```
- List servers:
  ```bash
  python config_manager.py list-servers
  ```
- Enroll a command mapping:
  ```bash
  python config_manager.py add-command --repo user/repo --server 10.0.0.1 --command "./deploy.sh"
  ```

### Run Runner

- Manually run checks and commands:
  ```bash
  python runner.py
  ```

### Web UI

1. Start the Flask app:
   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```
2. Open browser at `http://localhost:5000/login`
3. Use the generated token from `config.json` to log in.
4. Manage repositories, servers, commands, view logs, and trigger checks.

## Command Secrets

Remote Pull Runner supports storing per-command secrets (key-value pairs) that are injected as environment variables when running commands over SSH.

### CLI

- Add a secret to a command:
  ```bash
  python config_manager.py add-secret --id <CMD_ID> --key <KEY> --value <VALUE>
  ```
- List secrets for a command:
  ```bash
  python config_manager.py list-secrets --id <CMD_ID>
  ```
- Remove a secret from a command:
  ```bash
  python config_manager.py remove-secret --id <CMD_ID> --key <KEY>
  ```

### Web UI

On the Commands page, click the **Secrets** button for a command to view, add, or remove secrets via the UI prompts.

### Notes

- Secrets are passed as environment variables to the remote process, so you can reference them in your scripts (e.g. `$KEY`).
- Ensure sensitive values are handled appropriately and avoid logging secrets.

## Testing

Use the REST API or UI to perform actions. For example, use the UI to add a repo and then trigger a check. Logs are in the `logs/` directory.

## Next Steps

- Customize check intervals via UI
- Add more detailed error pages

---

Commit message:

Add encrypted secrets storage and masked API/UI support
- Generate and store a per‑app encryption key and API token in `keys.json`.
- Migrate command‑level secrets into `secrets.json`, encrypted with PBKDF2+Fernet and per‑secret salts.
- Introduce secrets_manager.py for all crypto operations and masking logic.
- Refactor CLI, Flask API, and runner to store secrets by ID, list only masked tails, and decrypt only internally.
- Update static assets to present secret IDs and masked values; use ID for deletion/addition.
- Harden file permissions (0700) for all key/secret files.
- Update docs (`plan.md`, README.md, requirements.txt).

README.md, after:

# Remote Pull Runner

Remote Pull Runner is a micro CI/CD tool built with Python and Flask. It monitors GitHub repositories and remote servers, and runs commands on servers upon new commits.

## Features

- Enroll GitHub repositories (public/private) for change detection
- Enroll remote servers via SSH for connectivity checks
- Configure commands to run on servers when changes are detected
- Web UI for management, manual triggers, and log viewing
- Background scheduler for periodic checks
- Token-based authentication

## Requirements

- Python 3.10+ on Windows or 3.12+ on Linux
- Git

## Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone <repo-url> && cd remote-pull-runner
   ```
2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   # Windows:
   .\.venv\Scripts\activate
   # Linux:
   source .venv/bin/activate
   ```
3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

## Usage

### CLI Configuration

- Enroll a GitHub repository:
  ```bash
  python config_manager.py add-repo --repo user/repo [--token YOUR_GITHUB_TOKEN] [--branch main]
  ```
- List repositories:
  ```bash
  python config_manager.py list-repos
  ```
- Enroll a server:
  ```bash
  python config_manager.py add-server --host 10.0.0.1 --user ubuntu --key ~/.ssh/id_rsa
  ```
- List servers:
  ```bash
  python config_manager.py list-servers
  ```
- Enroll a command mapping:
  ```bash
  python config_manager.py add-command --repo user/repo --server 10.0.0.1 --command "./deploy.sh"
  ```

### Run Runner

- Manually run checks and commands:
  ```bash
  python runner.py
  ```

### Web UI

1. Start the Flask app:
   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```
2. Open browser at `http://localhost:5000/login`
3. Use the generated token from `config.json` to log in.
4. Manage repositories, servers, commands, view logs, and trigger checks.

## Security Enhancements

- On first startup, a random `api_key` and `encryption_key` are generated and stored in 
  `keys.json` (with `chmod 700` permissions).
- Sensitive command secrets are moved out of `config.json` into encrypted storage in `secrets.json`.
- Each secret is salted and encrypted using PBKDF2 + Fernet; only its last 3 characters (masked as `********xyz`) are exposed via the API/UI.
- Full secret values are decrypted only internally by `secrets_manager` when commands run over SSH, and are never returned by any public endpoint.

## Command Secrets (Updated)
**Storage and Usage**
- Add, list, and remove secrets via CLI (`config_manager.py add-secret`, `list-secrets`, `remove-secret`) or UI/API endpoints.
- Secrets are stored encrypted; only masked values are shown:
  ```bash
  KEY = ********abc (id=secret-id)
  ```
- When running commands, secrets are automatically decrypted and injected as environment variables.

## Files and Permissions
- `config.json`: no longer contains plaintext secrets; holds command entries with `secret_id` fields.
- `keys.json`: stores `api_key` and `encryption_key`, created on first run, `chmod 700`.
- `secrets.json`: stores encrypted secrets (`id`, `salt`, `encrypted_data`), `chmod 700`.

## Installation (Updated)
After cloning and activating your virtualenv, install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```  
Ensure `keys.json` and `secrets.json` will be created automatically with secure permissions when you start the app.

## Testing

Use the REST API or UI to perform actions. For example, use the UI to add a repo and then trigger a check. Logs are in the `logs/` directory.

## Next Steps

- Customize check intervals via UI
- Add more detailed error pages
